Guidelines for Documenting Service Sets: SERVICE SET METADATA
(based on the guidelines for datasets at http://kdd.ics.uci.edu/doc/data.form)

The purpose of this page is to provide detailed information on a particular
service set to enable other researchers to use the service instances for a 
variety of tasks related to service systems. For example, a service page might
have various service descriptions  which could then be used for different
management tasks such as service portfolio analysis using classification or
clustering mechanism, or service search and discovery.


When filling out this form, simply place your answer after the point indicated
by '>'. We will then process the form to ensure that all documentation files 
follow a common format.


1. Title of Service Set
   -- Indicate the central topic of the domain.
>

2. Data Type
   -- Indicate the type of data: multivariate, relational, time seris, 
      sequential, images, spatial, text, time series, transactional, web data
   -- If the data is heterogenous, list all relevant types.
>

3. Abstract
   -- A short one or two sentence description of the services (for use in summary 
      pages).
>

4. Sources
   (a) Original owners of serviceset (name/snail address/phone/email/homepage)
>
   (b) Donor of serviceset (name/snail address/phone/email/homepage)
>

5. Service Characteristics
   -- Describe how and why the services were collected.
   -- Provide the date and location of the service collection.
        -- distinguish between single and multiple times/locations 
   -- Describe the nature of the services. For example, are the
      data physical measurements, derived variables, from an opinion
      poll, etc.
   -- Are there any known systematic biases in the measurements? (e.g.,
      camera characteristics for image data)
   -- Did the services arise from:
        (i) observational data (i.e. data collected routinely)
       (ii) designed experiment
      (iii) designed sampling strategy
       (iv) census, (i.e. the data collected on all individuals/objects)
        (v) other, (please describe)
   -- Were the servcies preprocessed? if so, describe the preprocessing.
    
   -- Include any other information that you believe is important.
>

   -- Depending on the data type, also describe the following:

   All Types:
     (a) Missing Values:
         -- where possible describe why the values are missing
         -- missing at random, missing not at random, not applicable,
            unknown, don't cares 
>
     (b) Dependencies: are there any known dependencies between services. For 
         example, do instances represent the same service viewed from different 
         angles.
>

   Multivariate:
     (a) for each variable (feature/attribute/field):
           (i) give a name 
          (ii) provide typing information (i.e. is the variable categorical
               (ordered, unordered) or continuous).
               -- Be careful to distinguish categorical values that have been
                  encoded numerically.
         (iii) if the variable is categorical, list and describe the possible 
               values it may take on.
>

   Text:
     (a) language: (e.g. english, french, spanish,...)
>
     (b) annotated: are the data annotated and if so with what information?
>
     (c) structured: is the text structured in any manner (e.g. is the
         text html, or email) 
>
     (d) preprocessing: case, punctuation, stoplisted


6. Other Relevant Information
   -- Include any additional information about the services that the researcher 
      may find useful. For example:

      Prior Knowledge
        -- Describe the types of prior knowledge that could be used, 
           (provide references if possible). For example:  
           (i) transformations of the services
           (ii) class hierarchies
           (iii) known relevant and irrelevant variables
           (iv) constraints: e.g. variables could be positive or restricted
                to a certain range.
>

7. Service Format
   -- Describe how the services are stored in the archive. List the files, their
      contents, and their format (if not in plain text).
   -- Please describe thoroughly any data formats used which are unlikely
      to be known by non specialists. If necessary, use a separate file
      to describe the format.
   -- If there are different versions of the services, please describe the
      differences. For example, are there specific training and test
      sets that commonly used in the literature. 
>

8. Past Usage
    -- Include references that discuss the services themselfs and how they were
       collected. These references could be either classic and widely
       cited papers that were the first to announce the services and their 
       characteristics, or possibly a domain specific web site.
>
   

9. Acknowledgements, Copyright Information, and Availability 
  (a) copyright information
>
  (b) usage restrictions (e.g. for reseach only)
>
  (c) citation requests
>
  (d) acknowledgements
>

10. References & Further Information
  -- Include here references to additional information that describes the
     services itself. 
  (a) pointers to tutorial/background information on the domain
  (b) other useful web sites (parent archives, domain specific sites)
  (c) where to get more data (if this is a subsample)
  (e) other relevant publications
  (f) any additional comments on this serviceset
>
